---
layout: post
location: Portland, OR
title: Building F# on Mac OS X
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p. I'm attending the Emerging Languages Conference here in Portland,
OR, where I ran into Joe Pamer on the F# team. I've been following F#
for a while but have had trouble running it on the Mac.

p. Joe says his team at Microsoft runs into these issues often with users
and was kind enough to walk me through the steps to get F# running on
the mac.

p. First install Mono, there's a "dmg":http://www.go-mono.com/mono-downloads/download.html

1. Download the "zip file":http://fsxplat.codeplex.com/SourceControl/list/changesets
2. Run @make_package.sh@

p. This will complain about not finding @dpkg-buildpackage@ but the dll will be signed with the mono key and be ready to use.

<tt>
Assembly bin/FSharp.Core.dll signed. <br />
./make_package.sh: line 19: dpkg-buildpackage: command not found
</tt>

p. Now run @gacutil@ which will install the assembly into mono's library path.

<tt>
sudo gacutil -i ./fsharp/bin/FSharp.Core.dll
</tt>

p. And now you're ready go to run it and write some programs. There
are some known bugs around how it interacts with mono winforms so
we'll turn that off.

p. @$ mono fsharp/bin/fsi.exe --gui-@

p. Now let's run the repl.

<tt>
Microsoft (R) F# 2.0 Interactive build 2.0.0.0<br />
Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved. <br />
For help type #help;; <br />
&gt; printf "hi\n";; <br />
hi <br />
val it : unit = () <br />
&gt; #q;;<br />
<br />
- Exit...<br />
</tt>

p. Joe says that they are working on getting DMGs up for Mac users ASAP. (within days)
